Pd 1356 update apps UI ref content (#2972)
truenas/documentation: content/SCALE/SCALETutorials/Apps/UsingTrains.md

---
title: "Managing Catalog Trains"
description: "Provides basic information on adding or managing application catalogs in TrueNAS SCALE."
weight: 5
aliases:
 - /scale/scaleuireference/apps/usingcatalogs/
 - /scale/apps/usingcatalogs/
 - /scale/scaletutorials/apps/usingcatalogs/
tags:
- apps
- customapp
keywords:
- nas data storage
- software storage solutions
---

TrueNAS SCALE has a pre-built official catalog of available iXsystems-approved applications.

Users can configure add catalog trains if they choose.
The default train is **stable** which shows the **charts** apps. Other available trains are **enterprise** and **community**.

{{< hint type=note >}}
TrueNAS uses outbound ports 80/443 to retrieve the TRUENAS catalog.
{{< /hint >}}

## Managing Catalogs
Users can manage the catalog trains from the **Settings** option on the **Installed** screen.
You can also click **Manage Installed Apps** at the top right side of the **Discover** screen to open the **Installed** screen.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/AppsDiscoverScreen.png" alt="Applications Discover Screen" id="Applications Discover Screen" >}} new image

> Click **Train Settings** on **Settings** menu to open the **Edit Catalog** screen.

Author: This was a late UI change I was unaware of. This will get fixed in the next sprint under the next ticket when I can review all changes made in the past day or two to update all content.

From this screen users can change the catalog trains and show apps in those trains. Changing the train resyncs the catalog of apps.

{{< trueimage src="/images/SCALE/Apps/AppsEditCatalogScreen.png" alt="Apps Edit Catalog Screen" id="Apps Edit Catalog Screen" >}} [new image]

Click **Refresh Catalog** on the **Discover** screen to pull the catalog from the repository and refresh it by applying any updates.

> To remove a catalog from the system, remove it from the **Preferred Trains** field on the **Edit Catalog** screen and click **Save**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove a catalog from the system, deselect it from **Preferred Trains** the **Train Settings** screen and click **Save**.
```

> Users cannot delete the default catalog train.

Reviewer: It seems like you can remove the default, for example if you wanted to remove the stable train and select only the enterprise or community train, but it won't allow you to save unless at least one train is selected.

Author: Yes, this was one of those last minute UI changes that impacts docs. Fixing this in the next ticket and sprint
